In the last lesson,
you learned how Spark fits into the greater big data ecosystem,
and why Spark is central to this field.
Spark is built for large datasets that require distributed system
of multiple computers and is optimized to use memory efficiently.
In this lesson, you will use Spark to get hands on experience wrangling data.
You will get familiar with
functional programming concepts that you will encounter everyday in Spark,
such as maps, Lambda functions, and closures.
Then you will learn how to read in and write out data using
common formats such as CSV files and JSON.
You will also get comfortable with the Spark environment and learn
how to wrangle data with the two most popular Spark KPIs,
Spark DataFrames and Spark SQL.
You will practice using the Sparks syntax on
smaller datasets before you start to scale to big data in lesson three.
Finally, we'll also touch on the low-level RDD API
which you'll run into from time to time,
even when you're using the high level dataframe
and Spark SQL APIs. Now, let's dig in.